README.md, before:

# Warsaw 2024 Creative AI Workshop

![Banner](.github/workshop-banner.png)

Creative AI Workshop organised by [The Algorithmic Gaze](https://algorithmicgaze.com/).


# Figment

Download the [latest version of Figment](https://figmentapp.com/download/).

Build a simple hand/face segmentation pipeline using the webcam.

![Example output](.github/figment-segmentation-result.jpg)
[Example Figment File](figment/face_segmentation_webcam.fgmt)

Save all output files as `.jpg` files in a directory; then create a ZIP file of the directory (On Mac: Right-Click > Compress)

# Training on Colab

The `pix2pix_training/pix2pix_train_colab.ipynb` script is set up to run in [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/):

**[Open training notebook in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/algorithmicgaze/2024-warsaw-workshop/blob/main/training_colab/pix2pix_train_colab.ipynb)**

1. Go to [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/)
2. Choose the GitHub tab and type `https://github.com/algorithmicgaze/2024-warsaw-workshop`
3. Choose the pix2pix_train_colab.ipynb script.
4. Run the first cell. You'll get a warning that the notebook was not authored by Google. Click "Run Anyway".
5. Open the "Files" sidebar (click the icon on the left) and drag your ZIP file in the panel.
6. Run all other cells, except for the cell marked as optional (the one that says "curl").
7. After the training has completed, you will see a generator.zip file in the `output` folder. Click the three dots to download that file, or use the optional steps to copy to Google Drive

If you have [Colab Pro](https://colab.research.google.com/signup/pricing), the script will execute substantially faster.

## Converting to TensorFlow.js

To run the model in realtime in Figment, you'll need to convert it to TensorFlow.js. You can use the following script to do that:

**[Open conversion notebook in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/algorithmicgaze/2024-warsaw-workshop/blob/main/training_colab/pix2pix_convert_to_tfjs.ipynb)**

1. Upload the generator.zip file you downloaded from the last step, or connect the notebook to Google Drive.
2. Run all cells to do the conversion.
3. The last cell will download a `tfjs.zip` file. Put that in your Figment project folder.

# Inference

Once the model has trained, you should be able to convert it to TensorFlow.js by running the last cells of the script.

If you don't have a model yet, you can download a complete prepared model from this link:

[unsplash_woman_tfjs.zip](https://enigmeta.s3.amazonaws.com/2022-kikk-workshop/unsplash_woman_tfjs.zip)

Unzip the file in the `figment/assets` folder. So there should be a folder `figment/assets/unsplash_woman_tfjs`.

Open the [`face_inference.fgmt`](figment/face_inference.fgmt) script in the `figment` folder with Figment. You should be able to control the face with your webcam!

![Figment Inference Example](.github/figment-inference.jpeg)
[Example Figment File](figment/face_inference.fgmt)

# Next Steps

Once the model is trained, try feeding in different things than a face. What happens if the lines are hands? Or shapes? Can you scan a drawing with your webcam and control the face that way?

There are some quality improvements you can do too:

- Training for longer can help a lot
- Curating the dataset better might produce better results

Commit message:

Add more instructions to README file.

README.md, after:

# Warsaw 2024 Creative AI Workshop

![Banner](.github/workshop-banner.png)

Creative AI Workshop organised by [The Algorithmic Gaze](https://algorithmicgaze.com/).


# Figment

Download the [latest version of Figment](https://figmentapp.com/download/).

Build a simple hand/face segmentation pipeline using the webcam.

![Example output](.github/figment-segmentation-result.jpg)
[Example Figment File](figment/face_segmentation_webcam.fgmt)

Save all output files as `.jpg` files in a directory; then create a ZIP file of the directory (On Mac: Right-Click > Compress)

# Training on Colab

The `training_colab/pix2pix_train_colab.ipynb` script is set up to run in [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/):

**[Open training notebook in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/algorithmicgaze/2024-warsaw-workshop/blob/main/training_colab/pix2pix_train_colab.ipynb)**

1. Go to [Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/)
2. Choose the GitHub tab and type `https://github.com/algorithmicgaze/2024-warsaw-workshop`
3. Choose the pix2pix_train_colab.ipynb script.
4. Run the first cell. You'll get a warning that the notebook was not authored by Google. Click "Run Anyway".
5. Open the "Files" sidebar (click the icon on the left) and drag your ZIP file in the panel.
6. Run all other cells, except for the cell marked as optional (the one that says "curl").
7. After the training has completed, you will see a generator.zip file in the `output` folder. Click the three dots to download that file, or use the optional steps to copy to Google Drive

If you have [Colab Pro](https://colab.research.google.com/signup/pricing), the script will execute substantially faster.

## Converting to TensorFlow.js

To run the model in realtime in Figment, you'll need to convert it to TensorFlow.js. You can use the following script to do that:

**[Open conversion notebook in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/github/algorithmicgaze/2024-warsaw-workshop/blob/main/training_colab/pix2pix_convert_to_tfjs.ipynb)**

1. Upload the generator.zip file you downloaded from the last step, or connect the notebook to Google Drive.
2. Run all cells to do the conversion.
3. The last cell will download a `tfjs.zip` file. Put that in your Figment project folder.

# Training On Your Own Machine

The `training_local/pix2pix_train_local.ipynb` script runs in Jupyter Notebook. Here's some setup to do first:

## Windows Setup

- Make sure you have a machine with a NVIDIA graphics card. Install the latest [NVIDIA driver](https://www.nvidia.com/download/index.aspx).
- Install [WSL](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install). Open PowerShell or Windows Command Prompt in administrator mode by right-clicking and selecting "Run as administrator", enter the wsl --install command, then restart your machine.

```bash
wsl --install
```

- Set up a user and password for the Linux distribution.
- Install [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).
- Make sure WSL 2 is enabled in Docker Desktop settings.
- From a command prompt, run the following command to start Jupyter notebook:

```bash
cd DIRECTORY_CONTAINING_WORKSHOP_FILES
docker run -it --rm -p 8888:8888 -v ${PWD}:/tf --gpus all tensorflow/tensorflow:latest-gpu-jupyter
```

- Once it has started, ctrl-click the link starting with http://127.0.0.1. You should see the Jupyter notebook window.
- Click the `training_local` directory, then the `pix2pix_train_local.ipynb` file to open it.
- Go through each cell using shift-ENTER to run them.


# Inference

Once the model has trained, you should be able to convert it to TensorFlow.js by running the last cells of the script.

If you don't have a model yet, you can download a complete prepared model from this link:

[unsplash_woman_tfjs.zip](https://enigmeta.s3.amazonaws.com/2022-kikk-workshop/unsplash_woman_tfjs.zip)

Unzip the file in the `figment/assets` folder. So there should be a folder `figment/assets/unsplash_woman_tfjs`.

Open the [`face_inference.fgmt`](figment/face_inference.fgmt) script in the `figment` folder with Figment. You should be able to control the face with your webcam!

![Figment Inference Example](.github/figment-inference.jpeg)
[Example Figment File](figment/face_inference.fgmt)

# Next Steps

Once the model is trained, try feeding in different things than a face. What happens if the lines are hands? Or shapes? Can you scan a drawing with your webcam and control the face that way?

There are some quality improvements you can do too:

- Training for longer can help a lot
- Curating the dataset better might produce better results
